 Key Vocab
Web Framework: software that is designed to support the development of web applications. Web frameworks provide built-in tools for generating web servers, turning Python objects into HTML, and more.
Extension: a package or module that adds functionality to a Flask application that it does not have by default.
Request: an attempt by one machine to contact another over the internet.
Client: an application or machine that accesses services being provided by a server through the internet.
Web Server: a combination of software and hardware that uses Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and other protocols to respond to requests made over the internet.
Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI): an interface between web servers and applications.
Template Engine: software that takes in strings with tokenized values, replacing the tokens with their values as output in a web browser.

Requests
URL
When you make a request on the web, how do you know where to send it? This is done through Uniform Resource Locators, or URLs. You may have also heard these addresses referred to as URIs (Uniform Resource Identifiers). Both are fine. Let's look at the URL we used up top:

https://github.com/learn-co-curriculum/python-p4-how-the-web-works
This URL is broken into three parts:

https - the protocol.
github.com - the domain name.
/learn-co-curriculum/python-p4-how-the-web-works - the path.
The protocol is the format we're using to send our request. There are several different types of internet protocols (SMTP for emails, HTTPS for secure requests, FTP for file transfers). To load a website, we use HTTP or HTTPS.

The domain name is a string of characters that identifies the unique location of the web server that hosts that particular website. This will be things like youtube.com and google.com.

The path is the particular part of the website we want to load. GitHub has millions and millions of users and repositories, so we need to identify the specific resource we want using the path: /learn-co-curriculum/python-p4-how-the-web-works.

For an analogy for how a URL works, think about an apartment building. The domain is the entire building. Within that building, though, there are hundreds of apartments. We use the specific path (also called a resource) to indicate that we care about apartment 4E. The numbering/lettering system is different for every apartment building, just as the resources are laid out a bit differently for every website. For example, if we search for "URI" using Google, the path looks like this: https://www.google.com/search?q=URI. If we use Facebook to execute the same search, it looks like this: https://www.facebook.com/search/top/?q=uri.

You can learn more about the anatomy of a URL from MDNLinks to an external site.https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/What_is_a_URL

HTTP Verbs
When making a web request, in addition to the path, you also need to specify the action you would like the server to perform. We do this using HTTP VerbsLinks to an external site., also referred to as request methods. We can use the same path for multiple actions, so it is the combination of the path and the HTTP verb (method) that fully describes the request. For example, making a POST request to /learn-co-curriculum/python-p4-how-the-web-works tells the server something different from making a GET request to /learn-co-curriculum/python-p4-how-the-web-works.

GET requests are the most common browser requests. This just means "hey server, please GET me this resource", i.e., load this web page. Other verbs are used if we want to send some data from the user to the server, or modify or delete existing data. Below is a list of the available HTTP Verbs and what each is used for by convention. We will learn about them a bit later:

Verb	Description
GET	Retrieves a representation of a resource
POST	Create a new resource using data in the body of the request
PUT	Update an existing resource using data in the body of the request
PATCH	Update part of an existing resource using data in the body of the request
DELETE	Deletes a specific resource
HEAD	Asks for a response (like a GET but without the body)
TRACE	Echoes back the received request
OPTIONS	Returns the HTTP methods the server supports
CONNECT	Converts the request to a TCP/IP tunnel (generally for SSL)
Request Format
Our client so far has made a request to GitHub's server. In this case, a GET request to /learn-co-curriculum/phase-3-how-the-web-works-readme. The server then responds with all the code associated with that resource (everything between <!doctype html> and </html>), including all images, CSS files, JavaScript files, videos, music, etc.

When the client makes a request, it includes additional "metadata" about the request, besides just the URL, in the request headers. The request headers contain all the information the server needs in order to fulfill the request: the HTTP verb (method), the resource (path), and the domain (authority), as well as some other metadata. The request headers look something like this:
https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/python/request-headers.png

Responses
Once a server receives the request, it will do some processing (when you write the servers, that means it'll run code you wrote!) and then send a response back. The server's response is separated into two sections: the headers and the body.

The server's response headers look something like this:
https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/python/response-headers.png

The headers contain all of the metadata about the response. This includes things like date and what the content-type of the content is (is it HTML? JSON? an image?). The headers also include the status code of the response.

The body of the response is what you see rendered on the page. It is all of that HTML/CSS that you see! Most of the data of a response is in the body, not in the headers.

The body of the request can come in many different formats. For a website, the format will be HTML. For a web API, the format will probably be JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) or XML (eXtensible Markup Language), which are useful formats for transmitting structured data. In all cases, the body of the HTTP response is just a string of text — it's up to the client to use that string to build a graphical representation of the website, or parse the JSON response into another format.

Status Codes
The primary way that a human user knows that a web request was successful is that the page loads without any errors. However, you can also tell a request was successful if you see that the response header's status code is 200. You've probably seen another common status code, 404. This means "resource not found."

Status codes are separated into categories based on their first digit. Here are the different categories:

100's - informational
200's - success
300's - redirect
400's - client error
500's - server error

There are a number of other status codes and it's good to get familiar with them. You can see a full list of status codes on WikipediaLinks to an external site..
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes

Conclusion
As we shift our attention to back-end development during this phase and the next, one of your primary roles will be creating a server that can handle a request and generate a response. In this lesson, we explored the HTTP protocol and some of its key features, like:

URLs.
HTTP Verbs.
HTTP Status Codes.
In the coming lessons, we'll see how to use Flask to help set up a server that lets us use these different features of HTTP in Python, as well as how the database comes into play when building our server.
